[DOCS] Update note to add further details on current status of YUL (#6274)
ethereum/solidity: docs/yul.rst

.. index:: ! assembly, ! asm, ! evmasm, ! yul, julia, iulia

Yul (previously also called JULIA or IULIA) is an intermediate language that can be

> compiled to bytecode output for different backends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
compiled to bytecode for different backends.
```

.. index:: ! assembly, ! asm, ! evmasm, ! yul, julia, iulia

Yul (previously also called JULIA or IULIA) is an intermediate language that can

> compile bytecode output for different backends.

Reviewer 2: Is it really correct to say ``Yul can compile bytecode output``? Shouldn't it rather be ``Yul can *be compiled to* bytecode``?

Support for EVM 1.0, EVM 1.5 and eWASM is planned, and it is designed to be a usable common denominator of all three

> platforms. It can already be used for "inline assembly" inside Solidity and future versions of the Solidity compiler

Reviewer 2: Maybe we should remove this sentence about "inline assembly" here (continuing directly with Yul as a good language for optimization and an experimental Yul optimizer being part of the Solidity compiler). Then after this we could have a new paragraph explaining the whole flavor thing:

``Yul comes in two flavours, namely untyped Yul and typed Yul.`` (naming up for discussion, but I'd prefer this over "strict" and "non-strict" to avoid confusion) ``While future versions of Solidity will use (typed) Yul as intermediate language, untyped Yul can already be used in Solidity as "strict inline assembly". This mode for inline assembly can be enabled for the command line interface using the --strict-assembly parameter. Furthermore, untyped Yul can be used as language setting for the standard-json interface.``

> will use Yul as an intermediate language. It should also be easy to build high-level optimizer stages for Yul.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will use Yul as an intermediate language. Yul is a good target for high-level optimization stages (that can benefit all target platforms equally).
```
?
Maybe even further ``An experimental Yul optimizer is already part of the Solidity compiler.``?

> With the "inline assembly" flavour, Yul can be used as a language setting

Reviewer 3: Is "inline assembly" a flavour as well or is it just a way for end-users to write code? From what I gather, "strict assembly" and "typed strict assembly" are the flavours. "inline assembly" is simply the use of assembly in Solidity contracts.

.. index:: ! assembly, ! asm, ! evmasm, ! yul, julia, iulia

Yul (previously also called JULIA or IULIA) is an intermediate language that can
compile bytecode output for different backends.

Support for EVM 1.0, EVM 1.5 and eWASM is planned, and it is designed to be a usable common denominator of all three
platforms. Future versions of the Solidity compiler will use Yul as intermediate
language. It should also be easy to build high-level optimizer stages for Yul.

.. warning::

    Yul is in active development and its bytecode output is fully implemented for the "strict assembly" (using
    ``--strict-assembly`` and ``--optimize`` arguments) flavour which does not have types (everything is ``u256``)
    and uses :ref:`EVM opcodes <opcodes>` as built-in functions.

>     It is not yet implemented for the "strict yul" flavour that has types and a different set of built-in functions.

Reviewer: `The "strict yul" flavour is not yet implemented..'?

Yul (previously also called JULIA or IULIA) is an intermediate language that can
compile to various different backends
(EVM 1.0, EVM 1.5 and eWASM are planned).
Because of this, it is designed to be a usable common denominator of all three
platforms.
It can already be used for "inline assembly" inside Solidity and
future versions of the Solidity compiler will use Yul as intermediate
language. It should also be easy to build high-level optimizer stages for Yul.

Yul is implemented when using the compiler in strict assembly mode, which you can use
by adding the ``--strict-assembly`` and ``--optimize`` arguments when using ``solc``.

> 

Reviewer 3: I was of the impression that Yul is not yet available to the public for use. Perhaps Chris meant something like "to use the present incarnation of the optimizer, use `solc --strict-assembly --optimize.`

I realize this is confusing terminology which I also had trouble getting my head around :) FWIW, I'm adding my notes below
  - `yul` is the future optimizer (and also a namesake intermediate langugage)
    - the `yul` optimizer supports two intermediate language dialects, namely: `strict assembly` and `yul`
    - `yul` (the intermediate language) is not yet supported but `strict assembly` is
    - people can use the `yul` optimizer by passing the `--strict-assembly --optimize` flag to `solc`. Essentially, they get the benefits of a modern optimizer (`yul`) without having to wait for the release of the namesake intermediate language.

Author: I am also somewhat confused as I haven't really been exposed to yul, but this all helps I think. I'll take another pass soon. 👍

Reviewer: This is almost correct. We don't really use "Yul" as a term for the optimizer, we usually say "yul optimizer" if we talk about it. Yul is the (intermediate) language. "Using yul" in my mind is taking yul source code, potentially running the optimizer and then generating bytecode output. This bytecode output is not yet implemented for the "strict yul" flavour that has types and a different set of built-in functions. It is fully implemented for the "strict assmebly" flavour which does not have types and uses the EVM instructions as built-in functions.

.. warning::

    Yul is in active development, and as such does not yet support types (everything is ``u256``),

>     and the built-in functions are identical to the EVM opcodes. Refer to the :ref:`inline assembly documentation <inline-assembly>` for details.

Reviewer 3: Yul is indeed in active development, however it does support types. I suggest retaining the note, and adding a sentence to the effect of "Yul is not supported yet because it is under active development."

Author: OK, this I am confused by, as the existing text said it doesn't support types and I'm sure that's what @chriseth also said as a reason to create the issue. So I need a little clarity there :)

future versions of the Solidity compiler will even use Yul as intermediate
language. It should also be easy to build high-level optimizer stages for Yul.

.. warning::

>     Yul does not yet support types

Reviewer: The thing is that it is still a different language. So "strict assembly" is implemented (and that's also what it is called when using the commandline interface), but "Yul" as described below is not.

        }
    }

And on the command line interface with the ``--strict-assembly`` parameter.

.. warning::

>     Yul is in active development and its bytecode output is fully implemented for the "strict assembly" flavour which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Yul is in active development and bytecode generation is fully implemented only for untyped Yul (which does not have types; everything is u256) and with EVM 1.0 as target (EVM opcodes are used as built-in functions).
    Typed Yul will use a different set of built-in functions and is not yet implemented.
```
